okay let's speak now on the phone to
safwat Al kalut our correspondent in
Gaza some positive news at least with
the return of telephone and internet
communication stff what talk us through
what the last 24 hours have been
like look let me say the first that all
of our neighbors here where we are
displaced our work up and immediately
they grab their phones and try to
communicate with their families since
most of the people here have been
displaced from uh the north of the Gaza
Strip as well as Gaza City to the
southern area based on the Israeli War
so uh the last 24 hours was uh let's say
the hardest in the last uh three weeks
of Israeli War and God since at least
people cannot or could not communicate
and ask about theirs following as as
they have been used using to do
following every Israeli air strike uh in
Gaza uh internet and social media was
the only way that people could
communicate
especially in different areas in the Gip
and to communicate also with the with
theirs who are who live abroad I because
I have uh one of the rare people who
could have some international SIM cards
I have been receiving many calls and
many messages from people living outside
asking me to go and check if they if
uh their families their relatives are
still alive so that's now I'm I had a
quick uh look on social media they
describ uh the resumption of internet
and the telecommunication or
communication means as a thirsty man who
found some water in the in uh the desert
so this is the case in the Gaza Strip
now the Israelis say they now have
soldiers inside Gaza can you report on
any on the ground
fighting look the tonight was relatively
quiet in comparison with previous night
no and we cannot normally during any
ground operation there is huge artillery
coverage which we have not hit like
yesterday for example but what what the
Israelis have been trying is to create
new ground uh facts by sending troops
and creating new uh across the border
bases but since uh we uh we have been
receiving lots of uh messages and
declarations by the fighting groups that
they were able to uh uh to to confront
with the Israelis and to send them back
to inside the Israeli Israeli side of
the Border still uh Kasam brigades they
released a video for their Fighters
firing an anti-tank uh cornate rocket uh
which means that there are still uh
clashes or confrontations taking place
across the borders but still the
strength of the fire tonight was is less
than it was last night and safwat
briefly if you can what is the latest
humanitarian situation on the ground I
mean we're looking at these desperate
pictures of people trying to get uh
relatives from out of rubble uh we know
some Aid has been allowed through the
rougher border crossing in recent days
do you know how much has managed to
reach those in
need look this is like a trop in the
ocean what have been entering in inside
the Gaza there is lack of everything
from the needle as they say until the
you know the the essential uh medicines
needed for for the surgery and for
medical intervention in Gaza there is
lack of water food medicine equipment
now the minister of Health say they
believe that there are still 1,000 300
Palestinians are stranded or stuck under
the rubble most of them are dead and
some of are still alive but they don't
have the the the the needed machines to
bring them out of the rubble either
because the Israelis are Banning these
heavy duty machines or because of the
lack of uh fuel needed to even operating
these machines so the hospitals are
still conducting surgers without uh
without uh anesthesia and uh yesterday
passed by Sha Hospital you know uh the
doctors they still suffer from um you
know the minimum needs that they need to
uh intervene and to help us or survive
the the injuries they appealed Egypt to
open the crossings ra Crossing urgently
to send the injuries to the Egyptian
side to get receive the proper treatment
in the saai hospitals safat we really
appreciate your reporting this difficult
time safat Al Kut speaking to us there
on the phone from G
now if you're wondering what that sound
is in the background that constant uh
droning sound that is indeed Israeli
drones uh flying constantly over Gaza
that's the sound we're hearing in the
background